Creating unit tests, test class and test methods.
Here's the code for a test class containing one test method.
Inside we follow the optional paradigm of arrange, act, and assert.
That's the convention I use for all of my testing.
So we've seen what a test looks like and how to run an existing test.
Now let's create our own test.
We'll open up an empty project.
Open the test Runner window, create a test folder, a test class, and a method inside that test.
Then we'll run the test and see the result.
Here we are in a fairly empty project.
I do have the unity test framework added already.
Let's open up the test runner window.
Since the project has no edit mode tests and no play mode tests, each of those tabs offers some options
here to get us started.
First, we'll create an edit Mode test assembly folder by clicking the button that creates a new folder
in our project window, including an assembly setup for testing unity assemblies and the assembly definition
file is outside the scope of this course, but in brief, this signals unity that things within this
given folder should be compiled, should be compiled in a unique way.
So now that we have that test assembly folder set up, we can create our first test class.
Each of these steps can be done manually without using the window, but I'll continue by clicking the
next button here to create a test script in the current folder in the project window, that creates
a new test class, and it gives us two test methods.
Notice in the test runner window everything shows up.
I'll run all those tests.
All the tests pass.
Let's take a look at the code that's generated.
At this point, you're free to rename the class and these methods however you see fit.
And then of course copy and paste to add more methods within.
There's no limit to the number of test methods you can have in a test class, but generally you use
the class to organize certain topics, perhaps one test class for each production class, and then one
test method within for each method.
In production, you want to test something like that.
These comments are automatically generated by unity and are quite helpful.
I'll go over the highlights here using the test.
Using the test attribute sets us up for a normal edit mode test.
Using the unity test attribute allows us to execute a test over multiple frames.
Now, I mentioned before that using unity test is best fit for play mode.
You have much more options at what type of asynchronous functionality you can do there.
It is indeed possible here, and as the comment suggests, you can use yield return null to skip a frame.
For example, doing the setup, then waiting a frame and doing the test.
Something like that.
For example doing the setup code.
Waiting a frame.
And then doing the assertion, something like that here, back into unity.
I will tab over to the.
Play mode and follow the same steps.
First, we'll create a play mode test assembly folder, and then I'll create a test script.
In this folder.
We can see in the test runner that we've got one test class that contains two test methods.
I'll run all and we see that everything passes.
Let's take a look at the generated code.
The code generated here is actually identical in both play mode and edit mode.
They give you very similar starting points.
That's it.
We're beginning to see that with the test runner window and just a little bit of added C-sharp, we
can do more things with our unity projects than we have before.
If you're new to unit testing, you're familiar with using unity to create runtime code.
But testing code is something different.
It's never directly experienced by your end users.
This code only runs in test mode and it's not even packaged into your end build.
We start to look at tests now as a small window into moments in time in a larger application.
Testing with a narrow focus to ensure we get consistent results.
Up to now, we've been talking mostly about adding new tests to existing code.
Next, we'll look at how to add tests while we're developing code with test driven development.
Thanks.